W-10736798-dw-maven-plugin-2.4-cv (#112)
mulesoft/docs-dataweave: modules/ROOT/pages/dataweave-maven-plugin.adoc

----
<plugin>
include::dataweave::partial$dataweave-maven-plugin-config.adoc[tag=config]
</plugin>
----

* Add the following repositories to your project's `pom.xml` file::
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<pluginRepositories>
    <pluginRepository>
        <id>mule-releases</id>
        <url>https://repository-master.mulesoft.org/nexus/content/repositories/releases</url>
    </pluginRepository>
    <pluginRepository>
        <id>mule-snapshots</id>
        <url>https://repository-master.mulesoft.org/nexus/content/repositories/snapshots</url>
    </pluginRepository>
</pluginRepositories>
----

== Compile a DataWeave Library

Run the `compile` goal to compile your DataWeave library from source code, for example:

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn compile
----

== Test a DataWeave Library

Run the `test` goal to execute the DataWeave test suite included in your library, for example:

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn test
----

The Maven plugin for DataWeave uses the xref:dataweave-testing-framework.adoc[DataWeave testing framework] to run your test suite, which supports configuring additional parameters when you run the `test` goal.

=== Configure the Test Suite

> Inside the `plugin` configuration, add a `tests` element configured to use parameters that meet your specific testing needs:

Reviewer: your specific -> your

|`runnerSystemProperties`
|`Map`
|`null`
|A set of additional system properties to pass to the test runner process.

|`runnerArgLine`
|`boolean`
|`null`
|A set of additional JVM options to pass to the test runner process.

|`runnerJvmDebug`
|`boolean`
|`false`
|When set to `true`, enables remote debugging for the test runner JVM.
|===

=== Test Configuration Example

The following example enables the `sonar` coverage report and disables `htmlReport` in a project.

.Example `pom.xml` file
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<plugin>
include::dataweave::partial$dataweave-maven-plugin-config.adoc[tag=config]
  <configuration>
    ...
    <tests>
      <htmlReport>false</htmlReport>
      <coverageEnabled>true</coverageEnabled>
      <coverageFormat>sonar</coverageFormat>
    </tests>
    ...
  </configuration>
</plugin>
----

== Generate Documentation for a DataWeave Library

Run the `data-weave:generate-docs` goal to auto-generate the documentation for your DataWeave library, for example:

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn prepare-package
----

Alternatively, you can also run:

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn data-weave:generate-docs
----

=== Configure the Automated Docs Generation

> Inside the `plugin` configuration, add a `docs` element configured with parameters that meet your desired documentation needs:

Reviewer: your desired -> your

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols=".^a,.^a,.^a,.^a"]
|===
|Name |Type |Default | Description

|`output`
|`String`
|`${project.build.directory}/data-weave-docs`
|The output directory in which the documentation files are created.

|`template`
|`String`
|`exchange_markdown`
|The template to use for the auto-generated documentation, one of:

* `exchange_markdown` +
Generates the documentation in a Markdown format that is compliant with https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/exchange-experience-api/[Exchange^].
* `markdown` +
Generates the documentation in Markdown format.
* `asciidoc` +
Generates the documenation in AsciiDoc format.

Valid values are `exchange_markdown`, `markdown`, or `asciidoc`.

|`homePage`
|`String`
|`null`

> |Specifies the path to a custom Markdown file to add in the home page generated by the `markdown` or `exchange_markdown` template.

Reviewer: Could be read to say that the home page is generated by the template when it is the file that's generated.

|`favicon`
|`String`
|`null`
|Specifies the path to the image file (`png` or `jpg`) to use as the asset icon in the Exchange portal.
|===

=== Docs Generation Example

The following example shows how to configure both a custom home page and a specific favicon to include in the Exchange portal home page of your DataWeave library:

.Example `pom.xml` file:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<plugin>
include::dataweave::partial$dataweave-maven-plugin-config.adoc[tag=config]
  <configuration>
    ...
    <docs>
      <homePage>${project.basedir}/README.md</homePage>
      <favicon>${project.basedir}/src/main/resources/favicon/parrot.jpg</favicon>
    </docs>
    ...
  </configuration>
</plugin>
----

== Deploy DataWeave Libraries and Upload Documentation to Exchange

Before uploading DataWeave libraries to Exchange, ensure that the `pom.xml` file includes all MuleSoft repositories and your credentials for Maven to access the enterprise repository. See xref:exchange::to-publish-assets-maven.adoc#publish-an-asset-to-exchange-using-maven[Publish an Asset to Exchange Using Maven] for instructions to set up your DataWeave library.

> After reviewing the `pom.xml` file, run the `deploy` goal to deploy the DataWeave library to the deployment target and upload the generated documentation to Exchange, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After reviewing the `pom.xml` file, run the `deploy` goal to deploy the DataWeave library to the deployment target, and upload the generated documentation to Exchange, for example:
```

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn deploy
----

=== Skip Exchange Documentation Upload

You can skip the Exchange documentation upload when deploying a DataWeave project by setting the `skipDeployDocs` system property to `true`:

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn deploy -DskipDeployDocs=true
----

=== Upload the Documentation to Exchange

> Alternatively, you can run the `data-weave:deploy-docs` goal to upload the generated documentation to Exchange without deploying the DataWeave library, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run the `data-weave:deploy-docs` goal to upload the generated documentation to Exchange without deploying the DataWeave library, for example:
```

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn data-weave:deploy-docs
----

== DataWeave Library Structure Reference

When designing your DataWeave library, use the basic components `src` and `pom.xml`:

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols=".^a,.^a,.^a"]
|===
|Component |Type |Description

|`src`
|Folder

> |The source directory for your DataWeave library’s productive source code and tests.

Reviewer: Is "productive" supposed to be "production"? I'm not sure what's meant.

|`pom.xml`
|Descriptor
|The POM file of your DataWeave library.
This file describes all of your library’s required dependencies.
|===

== Source Directory Reference

The directory structure of a DataWeave library comprises the `src/main` and `src/test` folders.

=== src/main

> `src/main` is the root folder for all the productive source code of the DataWeave library.

Reviewer: "productive" again. Not sure what this means.

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols=".^a,.^a,.^a"]
|===
|Folder |Folder Type |Description

|`src/main/dw`
|source

> |The root folder of the DataWeave library source code files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The root folder of the DataWeave library source code files.
```

|`src/main/resources`
|resource
|Contains the application resources, such as XML, JSON, and properties files.
|===

=== src/test

`src/test` is the root folder for all the test source code of the DataWeave library.

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols=".^a,.^a,.^a"]
|===
|Folder |Folder Type |Description

|`src/test/dw`
|source

> |The root folder of the test cases used to validate the DataWeave library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The root folder of the test cases used to validate the DataWeave library.
```

|`src/test/resources`
|resource
|Contains resources, such as XML, JSON, and properties files.
This folder also contains files required to run your test suite.
|===

> == See also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== See Also
```

= Packaging and Deploying DataWeave Libraries

> Use the DataWeave Maven plugin to integrate the packaging and deployment of your DataWeave libraries with your Maven lifecycle.

Reviewer 2: Apache can get persnickety about the use of their names: can we call this just the Maven plugin or the Apache Maven plugin for DataWeave?
```suggestion
Use the Apache Maven plugin for DataWeave to integrate the packaging and deployment of your DataWeave libraries with your Maven lifecycle.
```

> The DataWeave Maven plugin has six main goals you can run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The plugin enables you to run six main processes:
```

* `compile` +
Compiles the source code for your DataWeave library.

* `test` +

> Tests the compiled source code using the https://github.com/mulesoft/data-weave-testing-framework[DataWeave Testing Framework].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tests the compiled source code using the https://github.com/mulesoft/data-weave-testing-framework[DataWeave testing framework].
```

* `data-weave:generate-docs` +
Automatically generates the documentation for your DataWeave library.

* `package` +

> Packages the compiled code in a `JAR` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Packages the compiled code in a `.jar` file.
```
OR
```suggestion
Packages the compiled code in a JAR file.
```

* `data-weave:deploy-docs` +
Uploads the auto-generated documentation for your DataWeave library to Anypoint Exchange.

* `deploy` +
Automatically uploads your DataWeave library to the deployment target and uploads the auto-generated documentation to Exchange.

> == Add the DataWeave Maven Plugin to a Project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Add the Maven Plugin to a Project
```

> To enable the DataWeave Maven plugin in your project:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable the Maven plugin for DataWeave in your project:
```
I know that our legacy doc refers to the Mule Maven plugin, but I think we should change that, going forward, to (Apache) Maven plugin for Mule as well.

Reviewer 2: I will stop changing the name for the rest of this PR review, in case you object to changing it.

* Add the following Maven dependency to your project's `pom.xml` file:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<plugin>
include::dataweave::partial$dataweave-maven-plugin-config.adoc[tag=config]
</plugin>
----

* Add the following repositories to your project's `pom.xml` file::
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<pluginRepositories>
    <pluginRepository>
        <id>mule-releases</id>
        <url>https://repository-master.mulesoft.org/nexus/content/repositories/releases</url>
    </pluginRepository>
    <pluginRepository>
        <id>mule-snapshots</id>
        <url>https://repository-master.mulesoft.org/nexus/content/repositories/snapshots</url>
    </pluginRepository>
</pluginRepositories>
----

== Compile a DataWeave Library

> Run the `compile` goal to compile your DataWeave library from source code, for example:

Reviewer 2: Why are these called "goal"s?  
A goal is typically the end toward which effort is directed, not the effort itself; more specifically, a goal is an idea of the future or desired result that a person or a group of people envision, plan, and commit to achieve.
I would globally replace this term with something more specific to commands; will stop marking.

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn compile
----

== Test a DataWeave Library

Run the `test` goal to execute the DataWeave test suite included in your library, for example:

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn test
----

> The DataWeave Maven plugin uses the https://github.com/mulesoft/data-weave-testing-framework[DataWeave Testing Framework] to run your test suite, which supports configuring additional parameters when you run the `test` goal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The DataWeave Maven plugin uses the https://github.com/mulesoft/data-weave-testing-framework[DataWeave testing framework] to run your test suite, which supports configuring additional parameters when you run `test`.
```

=== Configure the Test Suite

> Inside the `plugin` configuration, add the `tests` element with your desired tests configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inside the `plugin` configuration, add a `tests` element configured to use parameters that meet your specific testing needs:
```

> *Configuration Parameters*
> 
> [%header%autowidth.spread,cols=".^a,.^a,.^a,.^a"]
> |===
> |Name |Type |Default |Description

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[%header%autowidth.spread,cols=".^a,.^a,.^a,.^a"]
|===
|Parameter Name |Type |Default |Description
```

|`output`
|`String`
|`${project.build.directory}/data-weave-test-reports`

> |Specifies the path for the directory where all the auto-generated reports are created when the test runs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Specifies the path for the directory in which all the auto-generated reports are created when the test runs.
```

|`htmlReport`
|`boolean`
|`true`

> |When set to `true`, the test suite generate an HTML report for the execution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|When set to `true`, the test suite generates an HTML report about the execution.
```

|`coverageEnabled`
|`boolean`
|`false`

> |When set to `true`, the test suite generate a coverage report for the execution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|When set to `true`, the test suite generates a coverage report about the execution.
```

|`coverageFormat`
|`String`
|`sonar`

> |Specifies the format for the coverage report.
> 
> There are two valid formats:
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Specifies the format for the coverage report, one of:

```

* `sonar` +
Generates a valid https://www.sonarqube.org/[Sonar^] coverage report for your test suite.
* `html` +
Generates an HTML coverage report for your test suite.

|`runnerLogForkedProcessCommand`
|`boolean`
|`false`

> |When set to `true`, logs the command used to launch the test runner process.

Reviewer 2: "test runner process" or "test run process"? ditto below

|`runnerEnvironmentVariables`
|`Map`
|`null`
|A set of additional environment variables to pass to the test runner process.

|`runnerSystemProperties`
|`Map`
|`null`
|A set of additional system properties to pass to the test runner process.

|`runnerArgLine`
|`boolean`
|`null`

> |A set of additional JVM options to pass to the test runner process

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|A set of additional JVM options to pass to the test runner process.
```

|`runnerJvmDebug`
|`boolean`
|`false`
|When set to `true`, enables remote debugging for the test runner JVM.
|===

=== Test Configuration Example

> The following example enables `sonar` coverage report and disables `htmlReport` in a project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example enables the `sonar` coverage report and disables `htmlReport` in a project.
```

.Example `pom.xml` file
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<plugin>
include::dataweave::partial$dataweave-maven-plugin-config.adoc[tag=config]
  <configuration>
    ...
    <tests>
      <htmlReport>false</htmlReport>
      <coverageEnabled>true</coverageEnabled>
      <coverageFormat>sonar</coverageFormat>
    </tests>
    ...
  </configuration>
</plugin>
----

== Generate Documentation for a DataWeave Library

Run the `data-weave:generate-docs` goal to auto-generate the documentation for your DataWeave library, for example:

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn prepare-package
----

Alternatively, you can also run:

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn data-weave:generate-docs
----

=== Configure the Automated Docs Generation

> Inside the `plugin` configuration, add the `docs` element with your desired documentation configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inside the `plugin` configuration, add a `docs` element configured with parameters that meet your desired documentation needs.
```

> 
> *Configuration Parameters*
> 
> [%header%autowidth.spread,cols=".^a,.^a,.^a,.^a"]
> |===
> |Name |Type |Default | Description

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols=".^a,.^a,.^a,.^a"]
|===
|Parameter Name |Type |Default | Description
```

|`output`
|`String`
|`${project.build.directory}/data-weave-docs`

> |The output directory where the documentation files are created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|The output directory in which the documentation files are created.
```

|`template`
|`String`
|`exchange_markdown`

> |The template set to use for the auto-generated documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|The template to use for the auto-generated documentation, one of:
```

> The DataWeave Maven plugin supports 3 types of documentation templates:
> 
> * `exchange_markdown` +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

* `exchange_markdown` +
```

> Generates the documentation in Markdown format, compliant with https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/exchange-experience-api/[Exchange^].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generates the documentation in a Markdown format that is compliant with https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/exchange-experience-api/[Exchange^].
```

* `markdown` +
Generates the documentation in Markdown format.
* `asciidoc` +
Generates the documenation in AsciiDoc format.

> Valid values are: `exchange_markdown` or `markdown` or `asciidoc`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Valid values are `exchange_markdown`, `markdown`, or `asciidoc`.
```

|`homePage`
|`String`
|`null`
|Specifies the path to a custom Markdown file to add in the home page generated by the `markdown` or `exchange_markdown` template.

|`favicon`
|`String`
|`null`
|Specifies the path to the image file (`png` or `jpg`) to use as the asset icon in the Exchange portal.
|===

=== Docs Generation Example

> The following example shows how to configure a custom home page and a specific favicon to include in the Exchange portal home page of your DataWeave library:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to configure both a custom home page and a specific favicon to include in the Exchange portal home page of your DataWeave library:
```

.Example `pom.xml` file:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<plugin>
include::dataweave::partial$dataweave-maven-plugin-config.adoc[tag=config]
  <configuration>
    ...
    <docs>
      <homePage>${project.basedir}/README.md</homePage>
      <favicon>${project.basedir}/src/main/resources/favicon/parrot.jpg</favicon>
    </docs>
    ...
  </configuration>
</plugin>
----

== Deploy DataWeave Libraries and Documentation to Exchange

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before uploading DataWeave libraries to Exchange, ensure that the `pom.xml` file includes all MuleSoft repositories and your credentials for Maven to access the enterprise repository. See xref:exchange::to-publish-assets-maven.adoc#publish-an-asset-to-exchange-using-maven[Publish an Asset to Exchange Using Maven] for instructions to set up your DataWeave library.

```

> Run the `deploy` goal to deploy the DataWeave library to the deployment target and upload the generated documentation to Exchange, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After reviewing `pom.xml`, run the `deploy` goal to deploy the DataWeave library to the deployment target and upload the generated documentation to Exchange, for example:
```

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn deploy
----

Run the `data-weave:deploy-docs` goal to upload the generated documentation to Exchange, for example:

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn data-weave:deploy-docs
----

> === Before You Deploy Libraries to Exchange
> 
> Before uploading DataWeave libraries to Exchange, ensure that the `pom.xml` file includes all MuleSoft repositories and your credentials for Maven to access the enterprise repository.
> 
> See xref:exchange::to-publish-assets-maven.adoc#publish-an-asset-to-exchange-using-maven[Publish an Asset to Exchange Using Maven] for instructions to set up your DataWeave library.
> 

Reviewer 2: Should precede the step to deploy; moved
```suggestion
```

=== Skip Exchange Documentation Upload

> You can skip the Exchange documentation upload when deploying a DataWeave project by setting the `skipDeployDocs` system property to `true`:

Reviewer 2: Should we explain under what circumstances you might want or need to do this?

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn deploy -DskipDeployDocs=true
----

== DataWeave Library Structure Reference

> At design time, DataWeave libraries need the following basic components:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When designing your DataWeave library, use the basic components `src` and `pom.xml`:
```

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols=".^a,.^a,.^a"]
|===
|Component |Type |Description

|`src`
|Folder
|The source directory for your DataWeave library’s productive source code and tests.

|`pom.xml`
|Descriptor
|The POM file of your DataWeave library.
This file describes all of your library’s required dependencies.
|===

== Source Directory Reference

> The directory structure of a DataWeave library has the following main folders:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The directory structure of a DataWeave library comprises the `src/main` and `src/test` folders.
```

=== src/main

`src/main` is the root folder for all the productive source code of the DataWeave library.

//[cols="1a,1a,3a", options="header"]
[%header%autowidth.spread,cols=".^a,.^a,.^a"]
|===
|Folder |Folder Type |Description

|`src/main/dw`
|source

> |The root folder of the DataWeave library source code files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|The root folder of the DataWeave library source code files
```

|`String`
|`exchange_markdown`
|The template set to use for the auto-generate documentation.

DataWeave Maven plugin supports 3 kinds of documentation templates:

* `exchange_markdown` +
Generates the documentation in markdown format compliant with https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/exchange-experience-api/[Exchange].
* `markdown` +
Generates the documentation in markdown format.
* `asciidoc` +
Generates the documenation in asciidoc format.

Valid values are: `exchange_markdown` or `markdown` or `asciidoc`.

|`homePage`
|`String`
|`null`
|The path to a custom markdown file to be added in the home page generated by `markdown` or `exchange_markdown` template.

|`favicon`
|`String`
|`null`
|Path to the image file (png/jpg) for asset's icon in the Exchange portal.
|===

=== Docs Generation Example

The following example shows how to configure a custom home page and a specific favicon to include in the Exchange portal home page for your DataWeave library:

.Example `pom.xml` file:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<plugin>
  <groupId>org.mule.weave</groupId>
  <artifactId>data-weave-maven-plugin</artifactId>

>   <version>0.8.0-SNAPSHOT</version>

Reviewer 3: Do not use SNAPSHOT version.
Today, the latest data-weave-maven-plugin released version is 0.1.0 but we need to update it after this sprint end to include the latest changes.
